= Tanker - IndexTank integration to your favorite orm

IndexTank is a great search indexing service, this gem tries to make 
any orm keep in sync with indextank with ease. This gem has a simple 
but powerful approach to integrating IndexTank to any orm. The gem 
also supports pagination using the +will_paginate/collection+.

There are very few things needed to integrate Tanker to any orm. 
Basically the orm instance must respond to +id+ and any attributes 
you wish to index.

== Installation
    gem install tanker

If you are using Rails 3 its better to add Tanker to your +GEMFILE+

    gem 'tanker'

And run

    bundle install

== Initialization
If you're using Rails, config/initializers/tanker.rb is a good place for this:

    YourAppName::Application.config.index_tank_url = 'http://:xxxxxxxxx@xxxxx.api.indextank.com'

If you are not using rails you can put this somewhere before you load your modesl

    Tanker.configuration = {:url => 'http://:xxxxxxxxx@xxxxx.api.indextank.com' }

You would probably want to have a fancier configuration depending on
your environment. Be sure to copy and paste the correct url provided
in the IndexTank Dashboard

== Example
    
    class Topic < ActiveRecord::Base
      acts_as_taggable
      has_many :authors
      
      # just include the Tanker module
      include Tanker

      # define the index by supplying the index name and the fields to index
      # this is the index name you create in the Index Tank dashboard
      # you can use the same index for various models Tanker can handle
      # indexing searching on different models with a single Index Tank index
      tankit 'my_index' do
        indexes :title
        indexes :content
        indexes :id
        indexes :tag_list #NOTICE this is an array of Tags! Awesome!

        # you may also dynamically retrieve field data
        indexes :author_names do
          authors.map {|author| author.name }
        end

        # to pass in a list of variables with your document,
        # supply a hash with the variable integers as keys:
        variables do
          {
            0 => authors.first.id, # these will be available in your queries
            1 => id                # as doc.var[0] and doc.var[1]
          }
        end

        # You may defined some server-side functions that can be
        # referenced in your queries. They're always referenced by
        # their integer key:
        functions do
          {
            1 => '-age',
            2 => 'doc.var[0] - doc.var[1]'
          }
        end
      end
      
      # define the callbacks to update or delete the index
      # these methods can be called whenever or wherever
      # this varies between ORMs
      after_save :update_tank_indexes
      after_destroy :delete_tank_indexes

      # Note! Will Paginate pagination, thanks mislav!
      def self.per_page
        5
      end

    end

Create Topics

    Topic.create(:title => 'Awesome Topic', :content => 'blah, blah', :tag_list => 'tag1, tag2')
    Topic.create(:title => 'Bad Topic', :content => 'blah, blah', :tag_list => 'tag1')
    Topic.create(:title => 'Cool Topic', :content => 'blah, blah', :tag_list => 'tag3, tag2')

Search Topics

    @topics = Topic.search_tank('Topic', :page => 1, :per_page => 10) # Gets 3 results!
    @topics = Topic.search_tank('blah',  :conditions => {:tag_list => 'tag1'}) # Gets 2 results!
    @topics = Topic.search_tank('blah',  :conditions => {:title => 'Awesome', :tag_list => 'tag1'}) # Gets 1 result!

Search multiple models

    @results = Tanker.search([Topic, Post], 'blah') # Gets any Topic OR Post results that match!

Search with negative conditions

    @topics = Topic.search_tank('keyword',  :conditions => {'tag_list' => 'tag1'}) # Gets 1 result!
    @topics = Topic.search_tank('keyword',  :conditions => {'-id' => [5,9]}) # Ignores documents with ids of '5' or '9'

Search with query variables

    @topics = Topic.search_tank('keyword',  :variables => {0 => 5.6}) # Makes q[0] available server-side as 5.6

Paginate Results

    <% will_paginate(@topics) %>

== Reindex your data

If you are using rails 3 there are of couple of rake tasks included in your project

    rake tanker:clear_indexes

This task deletes all your indexes and recreates empty indexes, if you have not created
the indexes in the Index Tank interface this task creates them for you provided
you have enough indexes in your account.

    rake tanker:reindex
    
This task re-indexes all the your models that have the Tanker module included.
Usually you will only need a single Index Tank index but if you want to separate
your indexes please use different index names in the tankit method call in your models

To reindex just one class rather than all the classes in your application just call:

    Model.tanker_reindex

And if you'd like to specify a custom number of records to PUT with each call to indextank.com you may specify it as the first argument:

    Model.tanker_reindex(:batch_size => 1000) # defaults to batch size of 200

Or you can restrict indexing to a subset of records. This is particularly helpful for massive datasets where only a small portion of the records is useful.

    Model.tanker_reindex(:batch_size => 1000, :scope => :not_deleted) # will call Model.not_deleted.all internally


== TODO
* Documentation
* More fancy stuff (Suggestions?)

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.


== Acknowledgements
The gem is based on a couple of projects:

*{redis-textsearch}[http://github.com/nateware/redis-textsearch]
*{mongomapper}[http://github.com/jnunemaker/mongomapper]
*{thinkingtank}[http://github.com/flaptor/thinkingtank]
*{will_paginate}[http://github.com/mislav/will_paginate]

Kudos to this awesome projects and developers


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 @kidpollo. See LICENSE for details.
